---
title:  "Integration of Artificial Intelligence in Robotic Applications"
date:   2020-11-14 15:04:23
categories: [jekyll]
tags: [jekyll]
---
Artificially Intelligent Robots would have sounded like something out of a H. G. Wells science fiction novel back in the early start of the generation, but it has become some sort of a reality as our technology has vastly increased throughout the years.  Many views or ideas in relation to AI integrated robots have been skewed by movies or fictional books which caused many people to develop fears and concerns towards it.  A fear that robots will take away jobs or worse, reach technological singularity.  In all actuality, these integrated robotic applications have been all around us the past few decades, helping us ease the burden of daily tasks or hazardous work.  

 The implementation of AI robotic applications is very predominant in the industrial world today. According to the British writer for the Nobel Perspective, Sir Christopher Pissarides: “Ever since the industrial revolution in the 18th century, new technology has been replacing human labor. Each technological breakthrough is based on one big new discovery, which can do some things better than humans can.”  Humans are only capable of doing so much and working so many hours a day before their bodies give up.  By negating the hardship on a human body and replacing the tedious or hazardous tasks with robotic applications not only increases productivity but can open countless job opportunities for those who were affected by the replacement.  If you look at the different job professions it took to develop horse drawn carriages to the vast amount of profession it takes to develop a Tesla vehicle, you’ll notice with newer tech more job opportunities open up.  

The many benefits to incorporate artificial intelligence within robotic applications can be seen in most factories around the globe today.  According to an article written by the Robotic Industries Association, the 4 types of robotic applications that use AI today are assembly, packaging, customer service, and open source robotics within manufacturing plants.  By automating tasks inside and outside factory settings, there is a drastic increase in productivity and profit.  AI automation can implement tasks normal humans cannot perform like that of rapid quality assurance of products in an assembly line, quick deformity checks with products, determining extremely precise measurements for scales or physics-based programs, and a vast array of other applications.  With the significant speed and accuracy AI robotic applications can perform, very immense calculations that would take a human to solve can be completed in extremely fast times.  This type of speed is very necessary when it comes to devices or apparatus’s that help preserve human life or prevent its harm.  

Having AI integrated within the devices we use every day or the products that help save our lives, will ensure the safety and security of each individual.  The healthcare field has started to us AI to help with various applications within their industry.  Helping with early detection of diseases such as cancer, easier diagnosis of patients, developing treatment plans, or having robots aid in surgical procedures are just some of the benefits according to a publication written by the firm Price Waterhouse and Cooper.  With technology in place like this in our health industry, countless lives can be saved before any severe symptoms can cause major effects or fatalities.  AI can solve the complex research needed to diagnose symptoms based on databases full of similar cases.  It can review and translate mammogram tests 30 times faster with 99% accuracy, reducing unnecessary biopsies according to Price Waterhouse and Cooper.  By continuing to integrate Ai into the healthcare facilities, a majority of illnesses, diseases, or any other type of sickness will be diagnosed faster and proper treatment can be made prior to any severe health issues occur.  It can even save the lives of people with AI assisted vehicles.

Modern vehicles are mostly controlled through computers integrated within the vehicle’s system.  They help assist drivers with lane controls, emergency braking before a collision can occur, and assisted cruise control to ensure proper distance from the vehicle in front of you.  Vehicles like the new Electric Vehicles, or EV, are applying the greatest amount of AI into their systems to perform unheard of tasks.  Electric vehicles companies like Tesla, Google and Ford have completely retrofitted their EV’s to be almost completely AI controlled.  Tesla with their near fully integrated self-driving systems have revolutionized the automotive industry, along with their vast amount of technological advancements into their vehicles.  This system is supposed to be able to fully drive a vehicle with no driver assistance.  It’ll be able through navigate busy traffic, switch lanes and park the vehicle with ease.  There is the scare factor of having AI fully control the lives of its passengers.  The dilemma is that AI doesn’t have the emotions or feelings that a human has.  It can’t decide an outcome based on what we deem as ethical or humanly justifiable.  There is research being done to create such an emotion for AI to reach but this brings many fears into the eyes of people.

Technological singularity is a hypothetical instance in time where our technological growth becomes uncontrollable and irreversible according to the Britannica.  The idea is that with our rapid increase of AI implemented systems, it will overthrow human control and find a way to eliminate any threat to its existence.    A book written by Murray Shanahan called “The Technological Singularity”, dives into an investigative range of scenarios where we believe that singularity in near or far, likely or impossible, apocalyptic or utopia.  He believes we need to imagine both possibilities if we want to bring about the better outcome if we are to continue down the path of super intelligent AI.  Using this technology to help assist us rather than doing all our daily tasks, can ensure that humans are still in control of the technology.  

Artificial Intelligence is very important to our industries, healthcare and general life as it speeds up the process of tedious tasks.  It greatly reduces the stress caused by long wait times, intensive laborism tasks and allows us to communicate with each other across the globe.  As it continues to advance, it will assist us in ways imagined only in science fiction movies.  The aid in terraforming a new planet like Mars, shuttling humans anywhere they wish to go, rebuilding a human body that suffers from any abnormalities such as paralysis or a loss of limb.  The endless opportunities are near in our future.  As humans, we need to accept this technology and ensure that those who are creating it, are doing the right things and not letting it take full control of our lives or used to cause harm.  Technology in the right hands will be beneficial to our future.  


References:

https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/industries/healthcare/publications/ai-robotics-new-health/transforming-healthcare.html
https://www.britannica.com/technology/singularity-technology
https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/industries/healthcare/publications/ai-robotics-new-health/transforming-healthcare.html
https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/technological-singularity
https://www.ubs.com/microsites/nobel-perspectives/en/latest-economic-questions/2018/future-robotics-artificial-intelligence.html
https://www.robotics.org/blog-article.cfm/What-are-the-4-Types-of-Collaborative-Robots/140


